huawei
========


June 22, 2024 : ray trace in cloud ? 
--------------------------------------

* https://www.huaweicentral.com/huawei-brings-harmonyos-next-cloud-rendering-for-realistic-gaming-experience/


The company has packed HarmonyOS NEXT with various app-oriented capabilities
that not only make them useful but secure too. Starting with the cloud
rendering technology, Huawei says that HarmonyOS NEXT will enhance the gaming
experience.

Cloud rendering helps in achieving real-time vibrant renders of over 1 billion
rays per second. Real-time rendering refers to a technique that renders 3D
images or animations at once. Thus it makes the 3D design more realistic and
interactive.


Which phone will get HarmonyOS NEXT?
--------------------------------------

The first devices that ship with the OS are the recently launched Mate 70
family, Mate X6 foldable, and the new MatePad Pro tablet. Richard Yu, company
CEO, revealed that this is only the beginning – all Huawei devices the company
will launch in 2025 will be powered by HarmonyOS Next.Nov 28, 2024


HiSilicon
----------

* https://www.nextplatform.com/2024/08/13/huaweis-hisilicon-can-compete-with-nvidia-gpus-in-china/

the HiSilicon chip design subsidiary of Huawei Technologies was readying its
third generation Ascend 910 series GPUs for market in October and would be able
to sell perhaps as many as 1.4 million of these devices to the hyperscalers and
cloud builders in 2025. These are companies such as Baidu, Tencent, Alibaba,
and ByteDance, the Big Four in China, who cannot get full-blown AI accelerators
from Nvidia, AMD, Intel, and others thanks to US export controls put into
effect in the fall of 2022 and subsequently tightened last year.


Huawei Ascend 910 / Da Vinci GPU
----------------------------------

September 30, 2024

Huawei has sent out samples of its new Ascend 910C to top Chinese server
companies, but issues continue to persist with the chip’s predecessor

* https://www.asiafinancial.com/bumps-ahead-for-huawei-in-race-to-rival-nvidia-with-new-ai-chip

Within the Chinese market, the Ascend 910B has so far also been considered the
most competitive AI offering available, given US export curbs have cut off
flows of the most advanced chips to the country.

Huawei Da Vinci GPU
----------------------------

* https://www.anandtech.com/show/14756/hot-chips-live-blogs-huawei-da-vinci-architecture


huawei ascend da vinci gpu ray tracing
----------------------------------------

* https://www.quora.com/How-does-Huaweis-AI-chip-compare-to-Nvidias-offerings

Biggest problem for Huawei is manufacturing. In past it used TSMC but since
2019 is banned and more and more Chinse companies get banned. This leaves using
Chinese SMIC for production.  And that’s a problem, big problem.



2020 : Huawei said to be eyeing the server GPU market, first chips to arrive later this year
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* https://www.techspot.com/news/84806-huawei-eyeing-server-gpu-market-first-chips-arrive.html

While everyone is waiting for Intel to unveil its long-promised Xe discrete
GPU, it might be a while before we see it in an actual product. In the
meantime, Huawei is reportedly making the finishing touches on a multi-year
effort to build the first Chinese discrete GPU for the server and HPC markets.

The GPU market is about to have a new player, and it comes from China.
According to a report from a South Korean publication, Huawei is setting up a
new division in the country called the Cloud and AI Business Group to take on
Nvidia and AMD in the enterprise space.

The Chinese tech giant is said to be readying its first GPUs for a late 2020
release, with its eyes set on the server and supercomputer markets - at least
at first. To that end, it has reportedly hired a few former Nvidia engineers,
but the company wants to attract most of the needed talent from South Korea,
which is where the new division will set up shop.

Normally, you'd think that Huawei would focus solely on its ARM efforts, since
this is the area where it has built a considerable amount of intellectual
property over the years. It has managed to beat Qualcomm in the race to 7nm, as
well as producing the first high-end mobile SoC with integrated 5G
capabilities. For enterprise systems, it has built the Kunpeng 920 - a 180W,
64-core, ARM-based server CPU that is currently being evaluated by companies
like Tencent for cloud gaming services.Normally, you'd think that Huawei would
focus solely on its ARM efforts, since this is the area where it has built a
considerable amount of intellectual property over the years. It has managed to
beat Qualcomm in the race to 7nm, as well as producing the first high-end
mobile SoC with integrated 5G capabilities. For enterprise systems, it has
built the Kunpeng 920 - a 180W, 64-core, ARM-based server CPU that is currently
being evaluated by companies like Tencent for cloud gaming services.













